How Does Ridership Vary Throughout The Year?

Time Dashboard
The bar chart on the top half of the dashboard illustrates how ridership is distributed throughout the year.
These values account for all trips between January 2020 and June 2022. Months with greater than 150,000 trips are 
depicted in purple, months with greater than 100,000 trips in dark blue, and other months in light blue. Winter months,
from December to February, all demonstrate 'Low' levels of activity (light blue bars). Summer months (June to August), on the other hand,
range from 'High' to 'Medium' levels activity. This increase in activity correlates with the rising temperatures beginning 
in May. 

The line graph on the bottom left shows the total number of rides during each hour of the summer months. Color coding functions the same as
in the bar chart, with purple corresponding to high activity, dark blue with medium activity, and light blue with low activity. Summer activity 
peaks at hour 18, with 48,001 recorded trips. This coincides with the end of the typical work day. Similar small peaks are also present at 
hours 8 and 12, concurring with the beginning of the work day and lunch time, respectively. 

The line graph on the bottom right shows the total number of rides during each hour of the winter months. Color coding functions the same as
in the other line graph and bar chart, with purple corresponding to high activity, dark blue with medium activity, and light blue with low 
activity. One thing to note is that the maximum ridership during the winter is almost half of the ridership recorded during the summer, at only 
26,243 trips. Once again, this drastic drop in ridership can be attributed to New York's cold, snowy winter weather. Similar to the summer months, 
ridership peaks at the start and end of the work day (hours 8 and 17/18).


How Has Membership Changed During the Pandemic?

Ridersihp Types Over Time
This stacked bar chart portrays the fluctuating ratio of part-time and full-time members over the course of the pandemic 
so far. Full-time members are in purple and part-time members are in dark blue. Inside each bar is the total number of trips made
by the corresponding rider type. Hovering over a bar reveals the percent change of that particular rider type since January 2020.
Each subsequent year reveals a similar pattern of increased ridership during the summer, and reduced ridership during the cold winter 
months. Although ridership drops at the beginning of each year, peak ridership seems to be increasing year after year. Looking at 2021 and 
2022 in particular, the percentage of part-time riders increases into the summer months and drop off again during the winter, peaking near 
40%. This suggests that warmer temperatures entice more users to enjoy citibike part-time, and encourage some part-time users to convert to 
full-time usership. By the end of June 2022, part-time ridership had increased by 2,441% and full-time ridership by 158%. The overall increase 
in users can be associated with a decreased fear of contracting COVID-19.


Where are the Most and Least Popular Stations?

Map of All Stations Compared with Household Income
This map marks all of the starting bike stations and the ending bike stations used between January 2020 and June 2022, overlayed on each zip code. 
The different zip code areas are color coded by 2018 median household income, with dark yellow being the lowest bracket and dark blue the highest. 
Individual map markers are either blue, purple, or red; blue stations are neither in the Top 10 start or end stations list, purple are a Top 10 start 
station, and red are a Top 10 end station. While most of the Top 10 start/end stations reside within high median income zip codes (07302, 07310, and 07030), 
some zip codes with a lower median income also house Top 10 stations. These stations are generally near public transportation, like the Liberty Light Rail 
station in zip code 07304 (median income: $41,300-$51,100).

Stations Dashboard
The left side of the dashboard consists of a map of all the starting bike stations and a bar graph of station popularity, while the 
right side contains the same information about the ending bike stations. Map markers range in color from dark blue (least popular) to white 
(relatively popular) to dark purple (very popular) on a gradient scale and are shown relative to their zip codes. Clicking on a map marker 
highlights that particular station on its corresponding bar graph, and vice versa. Due to the very specific latitude-longitude coordinates, 
however, clicking on a specific station in the bar graph may highlight multiple map markers. The most popular starting and ending station is 
Grove St PATH, located in zip code 07302. Grove St in Jersey City houses the Grove St train station, which would be a popular starting location 
and/or final destination. Other popular stations, such as the Hoboken Terminal - Hudson St & Hudson Pl station, also reside near other transportation 
options. 

Only Starting/Ending Stations
These two maps are identical to the ones presented on the "Stations Dashboard," taking up a full page each to appreciate the color-coded markers and 
zip code boundaries.
